In this video I'll demonstrate how to configure traffic shaping on a sphere distributed switch.
So here I am in the networking view of the Vee's for web climb and you can see here I've clicked on
a nice fair to show it a twitch called VCP demo and within this Vee's for a distributed switch there
is a bunch of properties and other things that we can potentially configure.
Now I'm actually going to drill down to an individual port group called V.M. network DP G.
And inside of that group I'm going to configure traffic shaping.
Now one of the things you'll notice about traffic shaping here with a distributed switch is I can configure
both ingress and egress traffic shaping.
If I look at a standard port group like VM network here for example and I look at the configuration
options for that my options are going to be relatively simple and actually have to go to the ESX host
here to configure this so let me do that.
Here's the switch 0 here is a port group that we've created on VSE which is zero called VM network and
I'm going to edit V.M. network and I just want to quickly demonstrate that with the Standard Poor's
group you can configure traffic shaping.
However there is no different configuration settings for inbound and outbound.
That's because inbound traffic shaping is not possible on a VSE fair standard switch.
So keep that in mind for the exam that inbound and outbound traffic shaping are supported by a port
group out Avies for distributed switch.
So let's go ahead and set up traffic shaping and the purpose of traffic shaping is essentially to put
some sort of governance on the amount of traffic that can be generated by this port group.
So for example I might have a whole bunch of Port groups I know in this case have only configured one.
Let's say you have 20 different port groups and one of those port groups tends to produce a lot of traffic.
What I can do is I can enable traffic shaping on that particular port group and I can establish some
limitations like for example I can establish the average bandwidth in kilobits per second that each
virtual machine is entitled to.
So if I make this value 50000 like you see here that means that each virtual machine connected to this
port group can produce an average of 50 megabits per second of eat grass traffic each virtual machine
and this port group can produce a maximum at any given moment of bandwidth of 100 megabits per second.
And the burst size defines how long are they allowed to transmit at that peak level.
So for example let's say I make this 124 thousand That's 124 megabytes.
That means that each virtual machine in this port group is going to be entitled to 124 megabytes of
burst size.
That means they can transmit 124 megabytes of data at this peak bandwidth rate of 100 megabits per second
when they exhaust this burst size the virtual machine will be forced back down to 50 make of its per
second and the only way that the VM can build this burst size back up is to stay below this average
bandwidth and if the virtual machine is transmitting less than 50 megabits per second that's going to
allow it to start saving up again and building up that burst size for when it needs it.
So traffic shaping is great if you have varying traffic requirements.
Sometimes the VM needs to transmit a lot of data sometimes it's only a little traffic shaping supports
that model.
So really the primary purpose here is just to ensure that one particular distributed group doesn't consume
all of the bandwidth available on those physical adapters.
That's what traffic shaping is all about.
I must look at it like a safety net.
You know it's a way to apply some sort of limitation.
Let's say for example one of these programs is for development and they're testing and outbound FGP
server that generates a ton of traffic.
Well if that traffic is sharing physical adapter's with eyes scuzzy or with your management VM kernel
port or with other critical types of traffic that can have a huge impact configuring traffic shaping
would give you some protection against that.